# Project Title: Impact of Climate Change to the Local Farmers in the Philippines Using EDA

**Introduction**
 
  The Philippines is one of the countries in the world that is experiencing climate change. Climate change could have a significant impact on agricultural production, according to (Thomas W. Hertel, 2010), there is still a lack of quantitative understanding of how these agricultural impacts would affect impoverished countries' economic livelihoods. According to the Global Climate Risk Index 2021, the Philippines ranked in 17th to the countries that experiencing the most extreme weather events and severe weather-related calamities have wreaked the most havoc during the last two decades (Kreft & Eckstein, 2014). The Philippines is also rated third in terms of climate change vulnerability, particularly exposure to natural climate disasters, according to the United Nations University Institute for Environment and Human Security's World Risk Index Report. As a result of climate change, extreme weather events are expected to become more common. The increased variability of weather caused by climate change has a negative impact on food supply, access to food, and food quality. According to The National Economic and Development Authority In 2013, agriculture provided roughly 30% of employment and 10% of the country's overall gross domestic product in the Philippines, which is an archipelagic country. Recent natural disasters wreaked havoc on crops and cattle, resulting in major losses in agricultural production as well as human lives. Climate change is wreaking havoc on the Philippines' economy and food security, among other things. As a result, the building of an enabling institutional environment is vital and urgent in developing climate-smart technologies that are viable and accessible to farmers. (January 2015). According to (Caesar Cororaton et al., 2015), the impact on agriculture and food production is significant because over 80% of global agriculture is rainfed. The dry season has been longer than it has ever been in recent years and it starts earlier and ends later in the year. Drought or El Niño becomes more likely as a result of this. The climate has a direct impact on the amount of water available for agricultural and domestic use, as scarcity will raise prices. Farmers who already have low incomes may find it more difficult to acquire water for their crops as prices climb. The farmers rely on the consistency of the natural pattern of weather to know when it’s time to plant to achieve the greatest harvest. But local weather patterns have changed dramatically because of climate change, making it increasingly difficult for farmers to decide when to plant and harvest their crops. According to (Malte F. Stuecker et al.,2018) Climate Variability Impacts on rice production in the Philippines, their findings reveal that, while temperature fluctuation is now minor in the Philippines, future climate forecasts suggest that, by the end of the century, temperatures may regularly surpass established rice production limits if global warming continues unchecked. As a result, accurate seasonal forecasting will likely become more important in providing the knowledge needed to guide agriculture management in order to offset the compounding effects of soil moisture fluctuation and temperature stress. This and other detailed case studies supplement global yield research by providing vital local views that might aid food policy decisions. In addition, because most of the country's key crops are rain-fed, a lack of rain will limit the variety of crops that farmers may plant. El Niño makes it difficult for farmers to grow particular crops, which reduces the availability of certain crops. As a result, it will either cease to be sold in supermarkets or be imported and sold at a higher price. The wet season, on the other hand, is getting shorter, typhoons are growing more frequent and intense over that short period. The Philippines is one of the most vulnerable countries to climate change due to its geographic location, according to the Institute for Economics and Peace. Because of that, the Philippines is particularly prone to natural catastrophes such as typhoons and flooding, which are exacerbated by climate change. Although many crops require a lot of rain, typhoons increase the risk of flooding, which reduces crop productivity and causes soil erosion. As a result, agricultural land becomes less productive. A strong enough typhoon may wipe away entire crop fields, putting a farmer's livelihood at risk. Not to mention the long-term effects, such as soil erosion, which will make future crop planting and harvesting much more difficult.




**Problem Statement**

 Farmers in the Philippines are suffering as a result of climate change. Farmers' revenue can be ruined by a fast change of season, such as the beginning of the dry season or shorter wet season. It also has an impact on the Philippines' economy because farmers are unable to produce crops due to the sudden shift in weather. They have difficulties adapting to the changing weather and because of that, it throws off their planting and harvesting schedule. Droughts or El Niño will most likely reduce crop output, putting them in danger of losing income if they do not respond. Non-farmers, as well as farmers, will have an impact on crop production. Rice, coconuts, corn, sugarcane, bananas, pineapples, and mangoes are all declining in output, which has a significant impact on their profits. Farmers must react to these changes by switching to more drought-resistant crops or using pesticides, both of which are potentially more expensive and time-consuming for the farmer. Despite the fact that many of the crops in the Philippines require a lot of rain, typhoons increase the risk of flooding, which has an impact on crop productivity and causes soil erosion. As a result, agricultural land becomes less productive. The long-term effects of climate change will make future crop planting and harvesting much more difficult.
 
 
   **Significance of the proposed project**
   
  The goal of this analysis is to examine how climate change affects farmers in the Philippines by applying exploratory data analysis to climate change indicators, as well as Crops Statistics of the Philippines 2016-2020, and Rice and Corn Stocks Inventory, January 2022. The researchers will be able to uncover strategies to avoid or mitigate climate change in the Philippines by constructing exploratory data analysis for this study. Farmers will profit as well since they will be able to adjust to unexpected changes in weather.       
    
    
   **Methods**
   
  This project focuses on mitigating the effects of climate change which has a greater impact in terms of agriculture here in the Philippines. Farmers will be able to suffer for a long time if there is no response to the effects of climate change. The researchers will be able to conduct an exploratory approach based on the data sets gathered for this study. The primary objective of this exploratory approach is to discover the possible ways how to lessen the impact of climate change on the agricultural departments, especially on the farmers who are suffering the most of its effects. Once the data has been analyzed, the exploratory analysis will help the researcher to develop ideas and strategies for the effects of climate change. Since it has a great impact on many people's lives especially the farmers. While everyone around the world feels the effects of climate change, the most vulnerable are the farmers that are needed to be focused and rely on many sources that will help and benefit them in times of climate change.
    
   **Expected Output**
   
This research is planned to produce an exploratory data analysis to discover the impact of the climate change on the Filipino Farmers from the year 2016 -to 20 22 as well as Crops Statistics of the Philippines 2016-2020, and Rice and Corn Stocks Inventory, January 2022. With the help of the data analysis, the researchers will be able to uncover strategies to avoid or mitigate climate change in the Philippines by constructing exploratory data analysis for this study. Farmers will profit as well since they will be able to adjust to unexpected changes in weather. 
